# Decision to Switch from SQL to NoSQL (MongoDB)

Initially, the plan was to utilise SQL (Azure SQL DB) as the primary data store for book information. This information
also encompassed embeddings. Given that these embeddings consist of 1536 float arrays, my initial idea was to store them
as a JSON string. However, during the setup of the automatic indexer between the SQL DB and the Search Service, I
discovered that embeddings cannot be indexed automatically via SQL DB. The reasoning provided in the documentation is:

> "Azure SQL doesn't offer a method to natively store a collection within a single SQL column. A workaround has not been
> identified at this time."

[Source](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/search/vector-search-how-to-create-index?tabs=config-2023-10-01-Preview%2Crest-2023-10-01-Preview%2Cpull%2Cportal-check-index)

As of October 2023, the only data stores supporting automatic indexing of embeddings are "Azure blob indexers and Azure
Cosmos DB for NoSQL indexers."

Hence, Azure Cosmos DB for MongoDB was selected. I specifically opted for MongoDB as it allows me to test changes
locally using a local instance of MongoDB rather than constantly working with a cloud instance.

## Other Approaches Considered:

- **Using Search Service as the Primary Data Store:**
    - Azure Search Service is currently in public preview.
    - Data resides within an index (table), and we query that index to retrieve the data. It's not possible to join
      other indices (and there's a cost associated with each index creation).
    - Further reasons are outlined in
      this [StackOverflow post](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/40101159/can-azure-cognitive-search-be-used-as-a-primary-database-for-some-data).

